FISH(6) BSD Games Manual FISH(6)

NAME

fish &mdash; play
&rsquo;&rsquo;Go Fish&rsquo;&rsquo;

SYNOPSIS

fish
[&minus;p]

DESCRIPTION

fish is the game
&rsquo;&rsquo;Go Fish&rsquo;&rsquo;, a traditional
children&rsquo;s card game.

The computer
deals the player and itself seven cards, and places the rest
of the deck face-down (figuratively). The object of the game
is to collect &rsquo;&rsquo;books&rsquo;&rsquo;, or all of
the members of a single rank. For example, collecting four
2&rsquo;s would give the player a &rsquo;&rsquo;book of
2&rsquo;s&rsquo;&rsquo;.

The options are
as follows:

&minus;p

Professional
mode.

The computer
makes a random decision as to who gets to start the game,
and then the computer and player take turns asking each
other for cards of a specified rank. If the asked player has
any cards of the requested rank, they give them up to the
asking player. A player must have at least one of the cards
of the rank they request in their hand. When a player asks
for a rank of which the other player has no cards, the asker
is told to &rsquo;&rsquo;Go Fish!&rsquo;&rsquo;. Then, the
asker draws a card from the non-dealt cards. If they draw
the card they asked for, they continue their turn, asking
for more ranks from the other player. Otherwise, the other
player gets a turn.

When a player
completes a book, either by getting cards from the other
player or drawing from the deck, they set those cards aside
and the rank is no longer in play.

The game ends
when either player no longer has any cards in their hand.
The player with the most books wins.

fish
provides instructions as to what input it accepts.

BUGS

The computer cheats only
rarely.

BSD May 31,
1993 BSD