NAME

nbdkit-example1-plugin
- minimal nbdkit plugin

SYNOPSIS

nbdkit
example1

DESCRIPTION

"nbdkit-example1-plugin"
is a minimal nbdkit(1) plugin.

It serves,
readonly, from memory, a static blob of data which looks a
little bit like a 100 MB disk image that contains a single
empty partition.

Mainly this is
useful for testing nbdkit and as an example for writing
nbdkit plugins (nbdkit-plugin(3)).

FILES

$plugindir/nbdkit-example1-plugin.so

The plugin.

Use
"nbdkit --dump-config" to find the location of
$plugindir.

VERSION

"nbdkit-example1-plugin"
first appeared in nbdkit 1.0.

SEE ALSO

https://gitlab.com/nbdkit/nbdkit/blob/master/plugins/example1/example1.c,
nbdkit(1), nbdkit-plugin(3)

AUTHORS

Richard W.M.
Jones

COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red
Hat

LICENSE

Redistribution
and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

&bull;

Redistributions of source code must retain the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer. 

&bull;

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
provided with the distribution.

&bull;

Neither the name of Red Hat nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written
permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE
IS PROVIDED BY RED HAT AND CONTRIBUTORS &rsquo;&rsquo;AS
IS&rsquo;&rsquo; AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL RED HAT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.