NAME

nbdkit-security
- information about past security issues in nbdkit

DESCRIPTION

This page
details past security issues found in nbdkit.

For how to
report new security issues, see the "SECURITY"
file in the top level source directory, also available
online here:
https://gitlab.com/nbdkit/nbdkit/blob/master/SECURITY

CVE-2019-14850
denial of service due to premature opening of back-end
connection 
See the full announcement and links to mitigation, tests and
fixes here:
https://www.redhat.com/archives/libguestfs/2019-September/msg00084.html

CVE-2019-14851
assertion failure by issuing commands in the wrong order

This CVE was caused by the fix to the previous issue.

See the full
announcement and links to mitigation, tests and fixes here:
https://www.redhat.com/archives/libguestfs/2019-September/msg00272.html

CVE-2021-3716
structured read denial of service attack against
starttls 
See the full announcement and links to mitigation, tests and
fixes here:
https://www.redhat.com/archives/libguestfs/2021-August/msg00083.html

SEE ALSO

nbdkit(1).

AUTHORS

Eric Blake

Richard W.M.
Jones

COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red
Hat

LICENSE

Redistribution
and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

&bull;

Redistributions of source code must retain the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer. 

&bull;

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
provided with the distribution.

&bull;

Neither the name of Red Hat nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written
permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE
IS PROVIDED BY RED HAT AND CONTRIBUTORS &rsquo;&rsquo;AS
IS&rsquo;&rsquo; AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL RED HAT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.