NAME

rsparms -
Configure the Rose interface.

SYNOPSIS

rsparms
-nodes add|del address[/mask] port neigh [digis...]

rsparms
-nodes list

rsparms
-call |none

rsparms
-version

DESCRIPTION

This program is
used to manipulate the routing tables of the Rose network
layer. To set up a new route to a Rose node in the routing
tables you must use the nodes option. All of the parameters
are needed to add the node. It is probably best to
illustrate with an example:

rsparms -nodes add 2080192303 144 F1OAT-11

This creates a
new route to a distant node with the address 2080192303 and
the packets for that node should be sent on AX.25 port 144
to my immediate neighbour F1OAT-11 without going through any
digipeaters. For example to set up the same node but via a
digipeater I would use:

rsparms -nodes add 2080192303 144 F1OAT-11
F6PRA-9 

It is also
possible to remove a route to a distant node with the same
command except that the &ldquo;add&rdquo; is replaced by a
&ldquo;del&rdquo;. The other parameters must also be
present. If the node has no other routes then the node will
be deleted, and the neighbour node that the connections go
via may also be deleted if no other node route uses it.

You may list
the configured Rose routes using the following syntax:

rsparms -nodes list

This program
may also be used to set up a common AX.25 level 2 callsign
that will be used for the ROSE node. By default no special
level 2 callsign is set, but setting it will replace any
existing level 2 callsign and register another one. Setting
the callsign to &ldquo;none&rdquo; will remove the level 2
callsign. For example:

rsparms -call VK2KTJ-10

would set the
callsign used by Rose internode traffic to VK2KTJ-10.

OPTIONS

-version

Display the version
information. 

FILES

/etc/ax25/axports

/etc/ax25/rsports

SEE ALSO

call(1),
rose(4), axports(5), rsports(5),
rsparms(8).

AUTHOR

Jonathan Naylor
G4KLX g4klx [AT] g4klx.uk>