NAME

sq network
keyserver - Retrieve and publishes certificates via key
servers

SYNOPSIS

sq network
keyserver fetch [OPTIONS] QUERY 
sq network keyserver publish [OPTIONS]
FILE

DESCRIPTION

Retrieve and
publishes certificates via key servers.

The OpenPGP
HTTP Keyserver Protocol (HKP) is a method for publishing and
retrieving certificates from key servers.

SUBCOMMANDS

sq network
keyserver fetch 
Retrieve certificates from key servers.

By default, any
returned certificates are stored in the local certificate
store. This can be overridden by using
&rsquo;--output&rsquo; option.

When a
certificate is retrieved from a verifying key server
(currently, this is limited to a list of known servers:
&rsquo;hkps://keys.openpgp.org&rsquo;,
&rsquo;hkps://keys.mailvelope.com&rsquo;, and
&rsquo;hkps://mail-api.proton.me&rsquo;), and imported into
the local certificate store, the User IDs are also
certificated with a local server-specific key. That proxy
certificate is in turn certified as a minimally trusted CA
(trust amount: 1 of 120) by the local trust root. How much a
proxy key server CA is trusted can be tuned using &rsquo;sq
pki link add&rsquo; or &rsquo;sq pki link retract&rsquo; in
the usual way.

sq network
keyserver publish 
Publish certificates on key servers.

Sends
certificates to the configured key servers for publication.
By default, the certificates are sent to
&rsquo;hkps://keys.openpgp.org&rsquo;,
&rsquo;hkps://mail-api.proton.me&rsquo;,
&rsquo;hkps://keys.mailvelope.com&rsquo;,
&rsquo;hkps://keyserver.ubuntu.com&rsquo;, and
&rsquo;hkps://sks.pod01.fleetstreetops.com&rsquo;. This can
be tweaked using &rsquo;--servers&rsquo;.

SEE ALSO

sq(1),
sq-network(1), sq-network-keyserver-fetch(1),
sq-network-keyserver-publish(1).

For the full
documentation see https://book.sequoia-pgp.org&gt;.

VERSION

0.34.0
(sequoia-openpgp 1.19.0)