NAME

sq pki link -
Manage authenticated certificate and User ID links

SYNOPSIS

sq pki link
add [OPTIONS] FINGERPRINT|KEYID
USERID|EMAIL 
sq pki link retract [OPTIONS]
FINGERPRINT|KEYID USERID|EMAIL 
sq pki link list [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION

Manage
authenticated certificate and User ID links.

Link a
certificate and User ID is one way of making
&rsquo;sq&rsquo; consider a binding to be authentic. Another
way is to use &rsquo;sq pki certify&rsquo; to certify the
binding with an explicitly configured trust root. The
linking functionality is often easier to work with, and the
information is private by default.

Authenticated
bindings can be used to designate a certificate using a
symbolic name. For instance, using &rsquo;sq
encrypt&rsquo;&rsquo;s &rsquo;--recipient-userid&rsquo; and
&rsquo;--recipient-email&rsquo; options, a user can
designate a certificate using a User ID or an email address
that is authenticated for that certificate.

&rsquo;sq&rsquo;
also uses authenticated certificates to authenticate other
data. For instance, &rsquo;sq verify&rsquo; considers
signatures made by an authenticated certificate to be
authentic.

Users can
create a link using &rsquo;sq pki link add&rsquo;. That link
can later be retracted using &rsquo;sq pki link
retract&rsquo;. A certificate can also be accepted as a
trusted introducer by passing the &rsquo;--ca&rsquo; option
to &rsquo;sq pki link add&rsquo;.

&rsquo;sq&rsquo;
implements linking using non-exportable certifications, and
an implicit trust root. An OpenPGP certificate directory,
the default certificate store used by &rsquo;sq&rsquo;,
includes a local trust root, which is stored under the
&rsquo;trust-root&rsquo; special name. When the user
instructs &rsquo;sq&rsquo; to accept a binding,
&rsquo;sq&rsquo; uses the local trust root to create a
non-exportable certification, which it stores in the
certificate directory. In this way, operations that use the
Web of Trust to authenticate a binding automatically use
links.

When a user
retracts a link, &rsquo;sq&rsquo; creates a new,
non-exportable certification with zero trust. This
certification suppresses the previous link.

SUBCOMMANDS

sq pki link
add 
Link a certificate and a User ID.

This cause
&rsquo;sq&rsquo; to considers the certificate and User ID
binding to be authentic.

A certificate
can also be accepted as a certification authority, which is
also known as a trusted introducer, by using the
&rsquo;--ca&rsquo; or &rsquo;--depth&rsquo; option.

A link can be
retracted using &rsquo;sq pki link retract&rsquo;.

This command is
similar to &rsquo;sq pki certify&rsquo;, but the
certifications it makes are done using the certificate
directory&rsquo;s trust root, not an arbitrary key. Further,
the certificates are marked as non-exportable. The former
makes it easier to manage certifications, especially when
the user&rsquo;s certification key is offline. And the
latter improves the user&rsquo;s privacy, by reducing the
chance that parts of the user&rsquo;s social graph is leaked
when a certificate is shared.

By default a
link never expires. Using the &rsquo;--expiry&rsquo;
argument specific validity periods may be defined. It allows
for providing a point in time for validity to end or a
validity duration.

&rsquo;sq pki
link&rsquo; respects the reference time set by the top-level
&rsquo;--time&rsquo; argument. It sets the link&rsquo;s
creation time to the reference time.

sq pki link
retract 
Retract links.

This command
retracts links that were previously created using &rsquo;sq
pki link add&rsquo;. See that subcommand&rsquo;s
documentation for more details. Note: this is called
&rsquo;retract&rsquo; and not &rsquo;remove&rsquo;, because
the certifications are not removed. Instead a new
certification is added, which says that the binding has not
been authenticated.

&rsquo;sq pki
link retract&rsquo; respects the reference time set by the
top-level &rsquo;--time&rsquo; argument. This causes a link
to be retracted as of a particular time instead of the
current time.

sq pki link
list 
List links.

This command
lists all bindings that are linked or whose link has been
retracted.

EXAMPLES

sq pki link
add 
The user links 0123456789ABCDEF and the User ID
&rsquo;romeo [AT] example.org>&rsquo;.

sq pki link add
0123456789ABCDEF &rsquo;romeo [AT] example.org>&rsquo;

The user
examines 0123456789ABCDEF and then accepts the certificate
0123456789ABCDEF with its current set of self-signed User
IDs.

sq cert export
--cert 0123456789ABCDEF | sq inspect

...

sq pki link add
0123456789ABCDEF --all

The user links
the certificate and its current self-signed User IDs for a
week.

sq pki link add
--expires-in 1w 0123456789ABCDEF --all

The user
accepts the certificate, and its current self-signed User
IDs as a certification authority. That is, the certificate
is considered a trust root.

sq pki link add
--ca &rsquo;*&rsquo; 0123456789ABCDEF --all

The user
accepts the certificate and its current self-signed User IDs
as a partially trusted certification authority.

sq pki link add
--ca &rsquo;*&rsquo; --amount 60 0123456789ABCDEF --all

The user
retracts their acceptance of 0123456789ABCDEF and any
associated User IDs. This effectively invalidates any
links.

sq pki link
retract 0123456789ABCDEF

SEE ALSO

sq(1),
sq-pki(1), sq-pki-link-add(1),
sq-pki-link-retract(1),
sq-pki-link-list(1).

For the full
documentation see https://book.sequoia-pgp.org&gt;.

VERSION

0.34.0
(sequoia-openpgp 1.19.0)