NAME

st4topgm -
convert an SBIG ST-4 camera file to PGM

SYNOPSIS

st4topgm

[st4file]

DESCRIPTION

This program is
part of Netpbm(1).

st4topgm
reads an image file in the native format used by the Santa
Barbara Instrument Group (SBIG) ST-4 astronomical CCD
cameras, and produces a PGM image as output. This format is
not to be confused with the format most other SBIG cameras
use, for which you can use sbigtopgm.

Additional
information on SBIG cameras and documentation of the file
format is available at the Web site,
http://www.sbig.com/">http://www.sbig.com/
.

OPTIONS

There are no
command line options defined specifically for
st4topgm, but it recognizes the options common to all
programs based on libnetpbm (See
 Common Options
.)

SEE ALSO

pgmtost4(1)
sbigtopgm(1) pgm(1)

HISTORY

Bryan Henderson
wrote st4topgm for Sourceforge Netpbm in January
2015. However, there has been another program by the same
name for the same purpose since December 2003, in the Debian
version of Netpbm. It was written by Justin Pryzby
justinpryzby [AT] users.net>.

Bryan
discovered the Debian version when Prophet of the Way did a
comparison of the two Netpbms in January 2015. It was the
only program that the Debian version had that the Netpbm
version did not (not counting one that really didn&rsquo;t
belong in any Netpbm), so Bryan decided to add it. Because
it was a small program, Bryan decided to write a replacement
in the Netpbm coding style rather than just copy
Pryzby&rsquo;s code, but Bryan endeavoured to keep the same
function.

DOCUMENT SOURCE

This manual
page was generated by the Netpbm tool &rsquo;makeman&rsquo;
from HTML source. The master documentation is at

http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/st4topgm.html